>> Kevin Powell: Finally, time to get into
some actually writing some CSS with that
out of the way.
And the first thing we are gonna do,
though,
before we start having some fun
with it is resetting our CSS.
CSS resets are something that's
a bit opinionated in a way.
There's quite a few of
them that are out there.
I mean, in this lesson on the website,
there is the reset I'll be using.
And for this one,
I am gonna copy and paste it.
We're not gonna be doing that as
we go through this course, but
I am gonna explain the reset and
what everything is doing that's in here.
Just really fast,
this is based on a modified version of
Andy Bell's A (more) Modern CSS Reset.
There are some differences that I've made
in here, I won't highlight what those are.
You can always compare notes
to what he did in his.
But I would recommend checking out that
blog post if you do have some time just
cuz he does a really nice job
of going through everything and
why he does the ones he does.
And you can then see the things that
I've done a little bit different.
When you're coming in with a reset,
you also have to decide what
the purpose of the reset is.
In general, the idea of a reset is that
all browers are starting on the same level
playing field.
These days, some opinions do sneek
into them a little bit, though.
But they should just be,
in my opinion, pretty lightweight and
not too heavy-handed, and just getting
everything set off in the right direction.
So I'll save this and we'll see
a few changes happen, not very much.
I think if you've written any CSS, you've
probably seen the box-sizing border-box,
so I won't go into too much detail.
Just means that if you add padding, you're
not altering the width of something.
The padding is included in the width,
so it makes our life a lot easier.
I think that's the one thing everybody
in CSS can agree on is a good idea.
This is something you don't see as often,
this text-size-adjust one.
I put a link to the blog
post that explains.
This is by Kilian Valkhof.
I'm gonna say his name wrong,
I apologize, Kilian.
[LAUGH] But this is for on iOS devices.
Only on phones,
if you turn them into landscape,
it's gonna shift the font sizes on you.
It's in there because of from the old days
when a lot of websites weren't mobile
optimized and they just left it there,
so this prevents that from happening.
If you're doing things properly,
you're taking care of things,
you don't want the font size to switch.
Hopefully, no one's looking at your
website on landscape on their phone, but
someone will [LAUGH] invariably.
So this just handles that.
There's this, margin: 0.
A lot of people prefer
coming in with a star 0.
If you wanna do that or
even the star 0, sorry, margin: 0 and
padding: 0 on that, go for it.
This one's just a little bit more specific
on what I'm setting the margins to.
In this project,
we could even get rid of some of these
things cuz we're not gonna have them.
Highly leaving it there, though, just in
case the project rose that I don't have to
come back in and add them later
on cuz that would be annoying.
There's a third page, and
all of a sudden, you have a block quote.
You don't wanna be like,
yeah, I wish I reset that.
So if you do the *1 here,
that's completely fine.
There are some things that margins
aren't the end of the world on, so
I'm gonna leave it like that.
Instead of having a ol and
ul of a margin and padding and
list-style of none, as people like to do.
Just because a lot of the time when we
have lists, we change the list styling,
take off the margin, take off the padding.
This has become a popular way of doing it.
And I put, again, in a comment a link to
an article that goes into much more detail
on it,
cuz I don't wanna talk about it too much.
But it's just the Safari will remove
the semantics of a list if you do
a list-style: none on it.
They've actually changed that more
recently to if you have a list
in a navigation, it won't remove it.
This is voiceover on Safari,
which is one of the screen readers.
The reason that they did that is cuz
developers like making everything a list.
And then people that were using assistive
technologies, it's reading the website out
to them and everything was
getting announced as a list.
So they made the decision saying,
there's too many lists out there.
It's annoying for users, and
users were complaining about it.
So they said,
if you do a list-style: none,
we're not gonna announce it as a list.
This is if you want to make sure that
it actually is announced as a list,
cuz you have a good reason for
it to be, but
you know you need the list-style:
none on there, this is a choice.
Another way you could actually
achieve the same thing or
similar anyway is a list-style and
doing a empty space on there.
I don't know enough about it to
recommend doing it that way, but
there is some content by Sara Soueidan,
where she's talked about that and
I just need to brush up on it.
So that's another one you could look into,
or another option that you could look
into, where it will keep
the semantics of your list.
Body, min-block-size,
I'm gonna talk about that,
that's similar to a min-height of 100vh.
This is just to make sure if you need
to center something or whatever,
it's just handy to have there,
I use it all the time.
And a default line-height,
the default is usually 1.4, I like 1.6.
If you like 1.5, 1.7, in this project,
I'll just let you know,
1.6 is what you wanna have.
h1s, buttons, other things like that, so
h1, 2, 3, they're very large font sizes.
Big line-height s look terrible,
we pull them in tighter.
And buttons, inputs, labels,
things that are one line that have
padding on the top and the bottom,
we pulled the line-height down just to
make it easier to add the padding to them.
And these are the ones we're gonna look at
really quickly, if you've never seen them,
text-wrap: balance and text-wrap: pretty.
So I'm gonna come on my h1 and
make the font size a bit bigger.
Font-size of, we'll just say 3rem.
If you have a text-wrap: balance, this is
for titles, which is why I have it on my
h1 through h4 right now, not titles
necessarily, but for large text.
And what it's gonna do, will open my
DevTools to play with this a little bit.
There we go.
So you can see I have this all in one
line, and when the browser gets smaller,
it's going to drop mushroom
foraging at the same time.
It's balancing out the title instead of
having the title have mushroom foraging on
one line.
So if I take this off,
the word mushroom goes back there, and
our title is less balanced out.
It's just a little bit nicer of
a typography touch when it's balanced.
It is a little bit opinionated,
maybe you'll run into a situation
where you don't actually like it.
But from a typography standpoint, it tends
to be an improvement over having that one
little word that gets stuck
at the end of a line.
We can take that off.
The similar one we have, and
I said I'd mentioned text-wrap: pretty,
this is a progressive enhancement.
I believe it's still only in Chromium
browsers, is we can see that this
paragraph right here at the bottom,
we have the words if misdentified.
If I turn off my text-wrap: pretty,
we just have the word
misidentified all by itself.
The idea here isn't with large blocks
of text, it's with paragraphs, lists.
Anything that's multiple lines long,
you would use your text-wrap: pretty.
And in typography, it's called an orphan,
when you have one word but
all by itself on the last line.
And it can just create an awkward look,
especially if you have lots of text
with these little orphans down the side.
So if you're on a browser where it's
not supported, it would look like this.
If it is supported, it just makes
sure that no word is left by itself.
This isn't the best example
because the if is so short, but
maybe if we resize that a little bit for
one of the other lines.
Can we get the other one line won't work,
or we can do it here with treasures.
So treasures, I'll highlight it.
The word treasures here
is either on there, or
if it drops down,
the word hidden drops down with it.
So that's what the text-wrap:
pretty is doing.
Image, picture,
we're just setting the inline size.
I had the block size before,
this would be the same as max-width, 100%.
So block size is on the block axis.
It's a logical, sorry,
inline size is on the inline axis.
Block is our vertical axis, and it's
just the logical property for those two.
And I'm very big on
logical properties now.
So if you see inline, it's always
gonna mean you're left to right, and
if you see block, it's up and down.
>> Kevin Powell: And then display: block.
And then the last but not least are input,
button, textarea, select, font: inherit.
Just cuz those don't actually
inherit your font properties, and
that's why they often look kind of ugly.
So by having that on there, it just keeps
a bit of consistency within your project.